We're going to move on to part two,
which is all about how do we go about
improving these metrics now that we
understand generally what they are.
We're going to talk first about the
business objectives of building websites,
which is the thing that
really drives all of this.
None of us are building web applications
purely out of the joy of it.
Well, some people definitely are.
I know a few people who build websites for
art.
But most of us here today, I think are
building websites because it's our job.
And it's our job because somebody
is making money off of them.
So we should talk about how
performance influences money,
because ultimately that is gonna be
the driver of why we do any of this.
Then we're gonna go through each of
those four web vitals we talked about.
And discuss techniques and
apply some techniques to improve each one,
when you would do it and what to consider.
And throughout all of that,
we're gonna be doing some code demos.
We're going to be doing
some coding together and
we're gonna be doing some exercises.
We're done with the spreadsheet
worksheet from part one, but
we're gonna be using some
other stuff this time.
All right, let's get into it.
Let's talk about the objectives
of a web business.
So if your company,
if your organization has a website or
a web application, it's usually for
one of four reasons.
To build awareness for what you do and
what your products are,
to retain customers to keep them around so
that they keep paying you.
To convert new customers you're trying
to attract a group of people and
get them to check out from your store or
subscribe to your service or
watch your training or whatever that is.
Are you and through all of those,
you might be just trying to
compete with other people.
And there's other players
in the market and
you want to have a better
website than theirs.
And that's great.
All of these are really important for
us to think about in terms of performance,
because this is where
the money comes from.
This is where the money comes from the
drives all of our time and our money and
our efforts.
There's an interesting thing to consider,
specifically when we
talk about competition.
So if we're building a website, and
we want to compete with other people who
might be doing similar things to us.
Well, being faster is cool,
and something to brag about.
But being faster really only matters,
is really only detectable by a person
If it's at least 20% faster.
As then, if you're just fractions,
like ten milliseconds faster
than your competitor and
you claim to be faster, well,
nobody cares, nobody's gonna notice that.
That you have to be at least 20% faster
than your competitor for people to matter.
And so what does that look like?
Well, I changed some things and
can check some things out.
This is a little app called
lightestapp.com which allows you to run
synthetic chrome lighthouse reports for
multiple websites and compare them.
So I compared myself with some
competitors to see how we did.
At the top is my website at
requestmetrics.com, and then three other
performance related companies speedcurve,
calibre, and pingdom.
And I recorded where the largest
contentful paint happens for each of them.
Well, I circled each one.
This is the point at which the majority
of the content has now rendered
on the screen.
Our website, thankfully,
was the fastest at 0.6 seconds.
The next fastest was speedcurve which
load at 0.9 seconds, which is 50% slower.
So more than 20% people will notice
that we're faster than speedcurve.
Calibre was 1.2 seconds which is double,
were twice as fast as calibre.
And pingdom was 1.5 seconds, so we're 150%
faster or they're 150% slower than we are.
So if I wanted to come in and compete and
say we're the fastest
performance monitoring app.
Well, people would actually notice that,
that would be something that
we could say and prove.